Doc: Business application studio (#451)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/guides/bas-external-system.md

---

> title: Connecting to external system from the Business Application Studio (BAS) with the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript / TypeScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connecting to external systems from the Business Application Studio (BAS) with the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript / TypeScript
```

> hide_title: false
> hide_table_of_contents: false

Reviewer: Remove those two lines ;)
```suggestion
```

> sidebar_label: Connecting to External system form BAS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Connecting to external systems from BAS
```

description: This article describes how the SDK helps to connect to external systems from the Business Application Studio.
keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- proxy
- connectivity
- Business Application Studio
- cloud-foundry
- JavaScript
- TypeScript
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl'

## What is the Business Application Studio (BAS)? ##

The Business Application Studio (BAS) is a development environment offered as a service on Cloud Foundry (CF).
You can simply subscribe to the BAS and from there quickly start developing without installing node, git, Visual Studio Code or other tools.
From the look and feel it is very similar to Visual Studio Code, which is no surprise since it is based on [Eclipse Theia](https://theia-ide.org/), the open source version of Visual Studio Code.

However, SAP added a few useful features to the BAS. 

> You can connect the BAS to your CF account.
> This allows you to reach behind a Cloud Connector from your locally running BAS application without deploying to CF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect the BAS to your CF account, which allows you to reach behind a Cloud Connector from your locally running BAS application without deploying to CF.
```
I as a dummy reader don't 100% how the Cloud Connector comes into play here. I guess I would have to have a Cloud Connector configured (and could normally reach the systems behind the CC from CF), so maybe this would be a better suggestion:
```suggestion
You can connect the BAS to your CF account, which allows you to reach all systems that you have configured on CF from your local machine. This includes systems that are connected through the Cloud Connector and are normally not reachable through the internet.
```

Author: like the second version.

> This is a very useful feature for developers because the cycle to test something is much quicker if you can do it locally.

Reviewer: Minor: Two sentences with "This":
```suggestion
Being able to test changes locally reduces the overhead of deploying remotely and thus increases convenience for developers.
```

<img alt="Connecting to external On-Premise systems" src={useBaseUrl('img/cloud-connector.png')} />

## Technical Background <a name="background"></a> ##

> Companies do not expose their On-Premise SAP S/4HANA systems to the internet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Companies do not expose their SAP S/4HANA On-Premise systems to the internet.
```

> They are only reachable via a Cloud Connector (CC) attached to a CF account.

Reviewer: This is not the first time Cloud Connector is mentioned. Maybe you want to move the abbreviation up?

In principle, you cannot reach these systems outside the CF account.    

However, due to the subscription between the BAS and the CF account there is a connection from the local application to the SAP S/4HANA system.
On a high level the connection works the following way:
- The BAS includes an HTTP_PROXY running at http://localhost:8887 
- This proxy forwards all http requests to the CF account
- CF searches the existing destinations for one matching the URL of the request
- If a destination is present, an initial request is sent to this destination
- The proxy is a reverse proxy also piping back the response to the BAS

The SDK helps you to consider the HTTP_PROXY automatically and makes it easy to use the same code base locally and in production on CF.

> As described in [the destination lookup](../features/connectivity/destination-js-sdk) the SDK has a destination lookup priority considering environment variables first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK has a [destination lookup](../features/connectivity/destination-js-sdk) priority considering environment variables first.
```

The trick is to define a `destinations` environment variable when you run locally, which works like a switch under the hood when you execute:

> ```$xslt

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be ```ts

Author: oh yes typo

> executeHttpRequest({ destinationName: "myDestinationName", jwt: "myJWT" });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
executeHttpRequest({ destinationName: 'myDestinationName', jwt: 'myJWT' });
```

**Case 1:** When run locally, the SDK reads the destination from the environment variables. The `jwt` is irrelevant.
The destination contains only the name and URL of the real CF destination. 
Since the destination has no proxy type specified, the SDK takes the HTTP_PROXY into account, as is the default.
From there the flow described above takes place.

**Case 2:** When run on CF there is no environment variable present. 
The `jwt` is used to fetch the full destination from the service.
The proxy type is `OnPremise` and the connectivity service provides all proxy information.

:::note
The `executeHttpRequest()` function is used by all request builders provided of the SDK as well as by CAP applications connecting to an SAP S/4HANA system.
:::

## Setup ##

### Prerequisite I: The Business Application Studio ###

You have a Cloud Foundry account and a subscription to the BAS. 
Start the BAS and connect your BAS workspace to the CF account. 
This is done via the little CF icon (<img src={useBaseUrl('img/cf-connect-button.jpg')} />) on the left of the BAS.
The connection enables the proxy connection from the BAS to your CF account.

> ### Prerequisite II: Cloud Connector and Destination Setup  <a name="CCandDestSetup"></a> ###

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisite II: Cloud Connector and Destination Setup <a name="CCandDestSetup"></a> ###
```

> You have a working Cloud Connector setup and in your account contains a destination pointing to an On-Premise system you want to connect to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have setup a working Cloud Connector and configured a destination pointing to an On-Premise system you want to connect to.
```

Per default, destinations are not usable by a connected BAS. 
You need to set two properties `WebIDEEnabled` and `HTML5.DynamicDestination` to enable that feature for a specific destination.
Go to the destination configuration in CF and add the properties:

|Property|Value|
|---|---|
|WebIDEEnabled|true|
|HTML5.DynamicDestination|true|
  

> ### Local Application Setup

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
### Local Application Setup with Visual Studio Code
```

Author: technically it is not VSC but UX is almost the same. I would call it `Local Application Setup wit Business Application Studio`?

Reviewer: Aaaah, I was sleeping obviously. Then I guess this is irrelevant.

You use [launch configurations](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging#_launchjson-attributes) to run and debug applications locally.
Either extend your existing `.vscode/launch.json` or create a new one. 
```JSON
{"configurations": [
    {
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "Debug my application",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/dist/main.js",
      "envFile": "${workspaceFolder}/.env",
      "preLaunchTask": "npm: build",
      "outFiles": [
        "${workspaceFolder}/dist/**/*.js"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
In this example we use a simple Nest.js application. 
The code will look very similar for express or [CAP](https://community.sap.com/topics/cloud-application-programming) applications.
The property `program` defines the script file executed when you run the configuration. 
In our case the `main.js` script will start up the Nest server.
The `preLaunchTask` executes the build before each run which compiles the TypeScript files to JavaScript. 
The `outFiles` properties defines where the compiled files will be located.

> As discussed [in the beginning](#background) we need to set an environment variable.

Reviewer: Just to make sure: Is this really read automatically? Does the BAS have some magic here? Maybe it would be nice to add, why adding to the env file already does the trick?

Author: added an extra sentence and link.
